Welcome back in the previous step we talked about the importance of naming server.
Before we would be able to use the naming server there a lot of steps that are involved.
The first thing is we would want to create a component for the Eureka naming server the second thing
is we would need to update the currency calculation service to connect the Eureka naming server the third
thing that's we would want to connect the currency exchange application also to talk to the Eureka naming
server.
The last thing we would do is configure ribbon.
Ribbon is actually currently installed in the currency calculation service.
Once the currency exchange service instances register with the naming server.
We would then use the ribbon to find those details from the naming server.
That would be the last step before we would be able to use the naming.
server let's get started with the first step.
That is to create the component for the naming server.
There are a number of other options present for naming servers.
But Eureka is one of the famous one which are offered by Netflix.
So we'll use that as usual.
Will go with the Maven project java use the same spring boot version that you have used earlier for
the earlier components at least 2.0.0 and not a snapshot.
The group ID remains the same com in 28 minutes.
Micro servies the artifact ID I would want to use for this.
Is Netflix hyphen Eureka
hyphen naming server very simple Netflix hyphen Eureka hyphen naming hyphen  server let's clear out all the dependencies that
are present in it and do it fresh the dependencies I would want are number one I would want this to be the Eureka
naming server I would need to have eureka server.
If you want to store the configuration for the Eureka server as well in lets say something like
a spring config server then you might want a config client.
Other than that we will add the management things actuator.
Other than DEV tools.
So basically what we have added in our Eureka server config client actuator and DEV tools the most important one
is Eureka server.
Now uou can click generate Project download the zip extract to a folder and lets import into eclipse.
I would now import the project into eclipse file import existing Maven projects this is exactly what we have
been doing a number of times during this course the folder which I've used is Netflix Eureka naming
server.
Let's import the project in.
You'd see that the Netflix Eureka naming server is coming in here as usual we would see source main java resources test
Java and the Maven dependencies.
Open up the Netflix Eureka naming server application class to enable the Eureka server you would need to
add in another
annotation it's enable Eureka.
Server I would import the annotation in and other than that I would want to open up the application dot properties
and quickly configure the name and other stuff.
Spring dot application dot name is equal to I would copy the artifact ID which we have given in here.
Netflix Eureka naming sever the port.
We want to use here is 8 7 6 1.
This is typically the default port for the naming server.
For now I don't want the server itself to register with the naming server I'll Eureka dot client dot.
Register with the Eureka I'll make it false and say it was the case with fetching a registry I don't
want to do that right now.
So let's disable that as well.
So this is a very simple configuration right.
We are giving it an application name configuring a couple of settings and configuring a port name
for it.
Once we are done with this you can actually launch the Eureka naming server application as the java application
Right-Click run as java application.
You would see that the Eureka server launched up Langella find it's URL 8761.
Let's go to the browser and hit the URL localhost Colan 8 7 6 1.
You can see the Eureka.
Server the UI for it present it in here you can see a high level status of the system here.
And also you can actually see the instances we check currently registered with the Eureka in
here.
Right now we don't really have anything.
Register with the Eureka server.
Now what we have now is the Eureka naming server is up and running.
How ever the currency calculations servies and the currency exchange service are not yet registered with the Eureka server.
Let's fix that in the next step in this step.
What we did was to create a new component for the.
Eureka server and we enable Eureka server by adding an at enable Eureka.
Server annotation on the application find as well as configured the name and port for the eureka server
and configured a couple of properties.
That's all we had to do to get the Eureka server up and running in the next step.
Let's connect the applications the Micro servies with the Eureka server until then bye bye.